---
layout: page
title: Mentor profiles
permalink: /mentor-profiles
---
Here are our 2022 mentors...

---

**Cara Brook** is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Ecology and Evolution at the University of Chicago. She received her B.S. in Earth Systems from Stanford University in 2010, and her M.Sc. and Ph.D. in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology from Princeton University in 2014 and 2017, respectively, in the lab of Professor Andy Dobson. While at Princeton, Brook pioneered a longterm fruit bat field system in Madagascar, which she maintains to this day. From 2017-2020, she was Miller Postdoctoral Fellow in the lab of Professor Mike Boots at the University of California, Berkeley, and in 2020, she was awarded a Loréal USA For Women in Science fellowship and a Branco Weiss Society in Science fellowship, which she began at Berkeley and transitioned to her current faculty job at U-Chicago.

**Sophia Horigan** is a PhD Candidate in Dr. Cara Brook’s lab in the Department of Ecology and Evolution at the University of Chicago. She received her B.A. in Biology from Lewis & Clark College in 2016, and her M.Sc. from the University of Chicago in 2021, where she was advised by Dr. Greg Dwyer. Before entering graduate school, she worked as a lab technician at Lewis & Clark College, a teaching assistant for a study abroad trip to Australia, and a science educator in the Tech Museum in San Jose, California. Sophia is a field and computational ecologist who combines data and models to understand and predict disease dynamics, with a particular interest in asking questions at the intersection of public health, environmental health, and animal conservation. For her Master’s thesis, she examined the role of spatial mechanisms in the population dynamics of an invasive lepidopteran infected by multiple pathogens. In the Brook lab, she will be using models to inform a strategic vaccination campaign against henipaviruses in bats with the goal of reducing the potential for zoonotic spillover.

**Theresa Laverty** is a Postdoctoral Scholar in Dr. Cara Brook’s lab in the Department of Ecology and Evolution at the University of Chicago. She received her B.A. in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology from Princeton University in 2010, and her Ph.D. in Fish, Wildlife, and Conservation Biology from Colorado State University in 2019, where she was advised by Dr. Joel Berger. She held a postdoctoral position at Colorado State University under the supervision of Dr. Kathryn Stoner before joining the Brook lab in 2021. Theresa’s a field ecologist and conservation biologist who has studied species as diverse as crocodilians, beach-nesting birds, mountain gorillas, and African elephants. For the last nine years, she has largely focused on the population and community ecology of bat communities in the deserts of northwestern Namibia and the southwestern United States, and currently in forest ecosystems in Madagascar as a member of the Brook lab.

**[Veronarindra Ramananjato](https://www.razafindratsima.org/lab-members.html)**, Vero for short, is a PhD candidate in Dr. Razafindratsima’s lab. She has a MS in Animal Conservation Biology from the University of Antananarivo (Madagascar) and is currently working on her PhD project at the University of California Berkeley. Her project aims to provide insights on the seed dispersal effectiveness of nocturnal and omnivorous species and use such knowledge to inform solutions for their conservation in a changing world. She addressed this by focusing on mouse lemurs in Madagascar’s rainforests and the effects of habitat fragmentation on their seed dispersal services. Vero has also interests in plant-animal interactions and their eventual applications for biodiversity conservation.

**[Onja Razafindratsima](https://www.razafindratsima.org/)** is an Assistant Professor in Integrative Biology at the University of California, Berkeley. A Malagasy ecologist and a National Geographic Explorer, Onja is passionate about tropical ecology and conservation with a strong focus on plant-animal interactions, lemur ecology and seed dispersal. Onja earned a PhD in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology from Rice University and was later a Hrdy Fellow in Conservation Biology at Harvard University.

**Emily Cornelius Ruhs** is a Postdoctoral Scholar in Dr. Cara Brook’s lab in the Department of Ecology and Evolution at the University of Chicago. She received her B.S. in Zoology from Michigan State University in 2011, her M.S. in Ecology from the University of Georgia in 2013 where she was advised by Drs. Sonia Altizer and Andrew Davis, and her Ph.D. in Wildlife Ecology from the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 2017, where she was advised by Dr. Bill Karasov. She held a short-term research fellowship at the Université du Quebéc à Rimouski, a contractor position at USGS, and a postdoctoral position at the University of South Florida before joining the Brook lab in 2021. Emily is both a field and experimental ecologist who focuses on how energetic constraints (e.g. food availability, reproduction, migration) impacts immune function and disease in a suite of taxonomic groups including birds, primates, and now bats. In the Brook lab she works on how nutritional status, reproduction, and seasonality influence immune function and disease dynamics in three species of fruit bats in Madagascar.

**[Sam Sambado](https://samsambado.weebly.com/about.html)** is a PhD Candidate in Cherie Briggs & Andy MacDonald lab groups at University of California Santa Barbara (UCSB). She received a BS in Biology at University of California Los Angeles, a MS in Microbiology at San Francisco State, and is currently working on her MA in Statistics at UCSB. Her main interests are connecting the impacts of climate change with the spread of vector-borne diseases using field, molecular, and quantitative techniques. Samantha’s PhD dissertation aims to link ecosystems to genes to better predict human disease outcomes in the tick system using publicly available data and statistical modeling.

**Katie Young** is a Postdoctoral Scholar in Dr. Cara Brook’s lab in the Department of Ecology and Evolution at the University of Chicago. She received her B.S. in Biology from Longwood University in 2008, followed by two years of service, 2009 - 2011, as a Peace Corps Volunteer in Kenya. She received her M.S. and PhD in Biology from New Mexico State University in 2015 and 2019 where she was advised by Dr. Kathryn Hanley. She was awarded a Fulbright Fellowship to Malaysian Borneo in 2016. She was a USDA funded Postdoctoral fellow working on a Grand Challenge Project in Mexico and New Mexico from 2019 to 2022 before joining the Brook lab. Katie is an RNA virus ecologist with a focus on arthropod-borne viruses and uses an inter-disciplinary approach including field-based sampling, molecular biology, and open-source data analytics to better understand complex host-vector-environmental interactions that drive viral emergence in Madagascar.
